# Box Borders
In the last lesson, you learned how to modify the dimensions of boxes. In this lesson, you'll learn how to manipulate another box property: borders.

In a previous exercise, you typed the following unexplained snippet of code into your stylesheet:

```
* {
  border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3);
}
```

In this lesson, you'll learn exactly what this code means and how it can be used to help support your learning of the box model.

Let's begin!

# Border Style
It's not possible to view a box's border if the border's style has not been set. A border's style can be set with the `border-style` property. This property can take on one of the following values:

1. `solid` - border is a solid line.

2. `dashed` - border is a series of lines or dashes.

3. `dotted` - border is a series of square dots.

4. `double` - border is two solid black lines.

5. `groove` - border is a groove (or carving).

6. `inset` - border appears to cut into the screen.

7. `outset` - border appears to pop out of the screen.

8. `ridge` - border appears as a picture frame.

9. `hidden` or `none` - no border.

```
div {
  border-style: solid;
}
```

In the example above, a solid black line will appear around all divs on the page.

# Border Width I
You can control the thickness, or width, of borders with the `border-width` property. The value of `border-width` is given in pixels.

```
p {
  border-style: solid;
  border-width: 5px;
}
```

In the example above, the solid borders of all paragraphs on the page would be set to a thickness of 5 pixels.

It's also possible to also set the `border-width` property to one of the following named thicknesses:

1. `thin`

2. `medium`

3. `thick`

While these values are perfectly valid, you may not see them often, but it's good to know that they exist.

# Border Width II
What if you don't want the border thickness to be the same on all four sides?

In that case, another version of the `border-width` property allows you to specify the width for each side of the border.

```
p {
  border-style: solid;
  border-width: 3px 1px 2px 1px;
}
```

The values in the example above refer to the border width in *clockwise* order (top: 3 pixels, right: 1 pixel, bottom: 2 pixels, left: 1 pixel).

# Border Width III
If you'd like to be even more specific about the width of different sides of the border, you can use the following properties:

1. `border-top-width`

2. `border-right-width`

3. `border-bottom-width`

4. `border-left-width`

Each property affects the width of only one side of the border, giving you more flexibility in customization.

```
p {
  border-style: solid;
  border-left-width: 4px;
}
```

In the example above, only the left side of the border will be set to a width of 4 pixels.

# Border Color
The color of a border can also be customized with the `border-color` property.

```
div.container {
  border-style: solid;
  border-width: 3px;
  border-color: rgb(22, 77, 100);
}
```

The `border-color` property accepts colors in the various formats you learned about earlier: named colors, RGB(a) colors, and hex colors. It's common to use hex colors for borders, but you'll likely also come across RGB(a) colors as well.

# Shorthand
In the last few exercises, you learned how to set a border's style, width, and color with three different properties. CSS allows you to style all three properties at once with a shorthand property.

The shorthand way of setting `border` style, width, and color can be achieved with the border property. Let's look at how we can decrease the amount of <font color=lightcoral>code bloat</font> with this property.

```
div.container {
  border-style: solid;
  border-width: 3px;
  border-color: rgb(22, 77, 100);
}
```

The code in the example above can be shortened using the `border` property:

```
div.container {
  border: 3px solid rgb(22, 77, 100);
}
```

Note that the `border` property includes all of the properties that we previously styled individually: width, style, and color.

It's considered best practice to follow the width-style-color order when using the `border` property.

# Border Radius
Ever since we revealed the borders of boxes, you may have noticed that the borders highlight the true shape of an element's box: square. Thanks to CSS, a border doesn't have to be square.

The corners of an element's border box can be modified with the `border-radius` property.

```
div.container {
  border: 3px solid rgb(22, 77, 100);
  border-radius: 5px;
}
```

The code in the example above will set `all four corners` of the border to a radius of 5 pixels (i.e. the same curvature that a circle with radius 5 pixels would have).

You can create a border that is a perfect circle by setting the radius equal to the height of the box, or to `100%`.

```
div.container {
  height: 60px;
  width: 60px;
  border: 3px solid rgb(22, 77, 100);
  border-radius: 100%;
}
```

The code in the example above creates a div that is a perfect circle.

# Borders
Great work! In this lesson, you learned how to style a box's border.

Let's review what you learned:

1. You can style the borders of an element's box.

2. The `border-width` property allows you to set the thickness, or width, of a border.

3. The `border-style` property allows you to change the style of border used.

4. The `border-color` property allows you to change the color of a border.

5. Individually setting the style, thickness, and color of a border can bloat code. It's more efficient to use the shorthand `border` property and specify all three properties at once, in that order.

6. Box borders don't have to be square. Their corners can be rounded with the `border-radius` property.

So far, we've focused on two aspects of the box: dimensions and borders. In the next unit, we'll focus on the content within the box and the space outside of the box.
